# DRV\_USART\_ErrorGet Function

**Parent topic:**[Library Interface](GUID-80FC4C27-64D2-411F-BE4A-4C4A8BD80604.md)

## C

```c
DRV_USART_ERROR DRV_USART_ErrorGet( const DRV_USART_BUFFER_HANDLE bufferHandle )
```

## Summary

Gets the USART hardware errors associated with the transfer request.

## Description

This function returns the errors associated with the given bufferHandle.<br />The call to this function also clears all the associated error flags.<br />This function can be used for non-DMA buffer transfers only. It cannot be<br />used when the USART driver is configured to use DMA.

## Precondition

DRV\_USART\_Open must have been called to obtain a valid opened device handle.

## Parameters

|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|bufferHandle|A valid handle to the transfer request|

## Returns

Errors occurred as listed by DRV\_USART\_ERROR. This function reports multiple USART errors if occurred.

## Example

```c
// 'bufferHandle', returned from the DRV_USART_ReadBufferAdd

if (DRV_USART_ErrorGet(bufferHandle) & DRV_USART_ERROR_OVERRUN)
{
    //Errors are cleared by the driver, take respective action
    //for the overrun error case.
}
```

## Remarks

USART errors are normally associated with the receiver. Once the DRV\_USART\_ErrorGet API is called by the application, the errors are cleared \(set to DRV\_USART\_ERROR\_NONE\) by the driver.

The errors remain valid only until the buffer object associated with the bufferHandle is not assigned to another transfer request; in which case the API returns the error status as DRV\_USART\_ERROR\_NONE.

Hence, application may want to call this routine from the callback routine itself, in case where an error is reported by the driver in the callback. This function is expected to work in non-DMA mode only.

