# DRV\_MEMORY\_TRANSFER\_HANDLER Typedef

**Parent topic:**[Library Interface](GUID-E18B0923-4286-4E08-A2EB-9A482E0063AE.md)

## C

```c
typedef SYS_MEDIA_EVENT_HANDLER DRV_MEMORY_TRANSFER_HANDLER;
```

## Summary

Pointer to a Memory Driver Event handler function

## Description

This data type defines the required function signature for the Memory event<br />handling callback function. A client must register a pointer to an event<br />handling function whose function signature \(parameter and return value<br />types\) match the types specified by this function pointer in order to<br />receive event calls back from the driver.

If the event is DRV\_MEMORY\_EVENT\_COMMAND\_COMPLETE, it means that the<br />requested operation was completed successfully.

If the event is DRV\_MEMORY\_EVENT\_COMMAND\_ERROR, it means that the scheduled<br />operation was not completed successfully.

The context parameter contains the handle to the client context, provided<br />at the time the event handling function was registered using the<br />DRV\_MEMORY\_TransferHandlerSet function. This context handle value is passed<br />back to the client as the "context" parameter. It can be any value<br />necessary to identify the client context or instance \(such as a pointer to<br />the client's data\) instance of the client that made the read/write/erase<br />request.

## Parameters

|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|event|Identifies the type of event|
|commandHandle|Handle returned from the Read/Write/Erase/EraseWrite requests|
|context|Value identifying the context of the application that registered the event handling function|

## Returns

None.

## Example

```c
void appTransferHandler
(
    DRV_MEMORY_EVENT event,
    DRV_MEMORY_COMMAND_HANDLE commandHandle,
    uintptr_t context
)
{
    switch(event)
    {
        case DRV_MEMORY_EVENT_COMMAND_COMPLETE:
        {
            xfer_done = true;
            break;
        }
        
        case DRV_MEMORY_EVENT_COMMAND_ERROR:
        {
            // Handle Error
            break;
        }
        
        default:
        {
            break;
        }
    }
}

DRV_MEMORY_TransferHandlerSet(memoryHandle, appTransferHandler, (uintptr_t)NULL);
```

## Remarks

Used in Asynchronous mode of operation.

Refer sys\_media.h for definition of SYS\_MEDIA\_EVENT\_HANDLER.

