# DRV\_SDSPI\_EventHandlerSet Function

**Parent topic:**[Library Interface](GUID-7A1B4F41-7CC6-49CF-941E-25265059D247.md)

## C

```c
void DRV_SDSPI_EventHandlerSet
(
    const DRV_HANDLE handle,
    const void * eventHandler,
    const uintptr_t context
)
```

## Summary

Allows a client to identify an event handling function for the driver to call back when queued operation has completed. For the synchronous SDSPI driver, the event handler is only used by the file system.

## Description

This function allows a client to identify an event handling function for<br />the driver to call back when queued operation has completed.<br />When a client queues a request for a read or a write operation, it is provided<br />with a handle identifying the buffer that was added to the driver's buffer queue.<br />The driver will pass this handle back to the client by calling "eventHandler"<br />function when the queued operation has completed.

The event handler should be set before the client performs any read or write<br />operations that could generate events. The event handler once set, persists<br />until the client closes the driver or sets another event handler \(which could<br />be a "NULL" pointer to indicate no callback\).

## Precondition

The DRV\_SDSPI\_Initialize routine must have been called for the specified SDSPI driver instance.

The DRV\_SDSPI\_Open routine must have been called to obtain a valid opened device handle.

## Parameters

|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|handle|A valid open-instance handle, returned from the driver's open function|
|eventHandler|Pointer to the event handler function implemented by the user|
|context|The value of parameter will be passed back to the client unchanged, when the eventHandler function is called. It can be used to identify any client specific data object that identifies the instance of the client module \(for example, it may be a pointer to the client module's state structure\).|

## Returns

None.

## Example

// Event is received when<br />// the buffer is processed.

void APP\_SDSPIEventHandler\(<br />DRV\_SDSPI\_EVENT event,<br />DRV\_SDSPI\_COMMAND\_HANDLE commandHandle,<br />uintptr\_t contextHandle<br />\)<br />\{<br />// contextHandle points to myAppObj.

```
switch(event)
{
    case DRV_SDSPI_EVENT_COMMAND_COMPLETE:
    {
        // This means the data was transferred successfully
        break;
    }
    
    case DRV_SDSPI_EVENT_COMMAND_ERROR:
    {
        // Error handling here
        break;
    }
    
    default:
    {
        break;
    }
}
```

\}

// mySDSPIHandle is the handle returned<br />// by the DRV\_SDSPI\_Open function.

// Client registers an event handler with driver<br />DRV\_SDSPI\_EventHandlerSet\(mySDSPIHandle, APP\_SDSPIEventHandler, \(uintptr\_t\)&myAppObj\);

## Remarks

If the client does not want to be notified when the queued operation has completed, it does not need to register a callback. This API may not be used in applications using the SDSPI Driver in synchronous mode.

