# SYS\_TIME\_TimerPeriodHasExpired Function

**Parent topic:**[Library Interface](GUID-3D84F884-122D-4A4A-95DA-DFD8C2E84650.md)

## C

```c
bool SYS_TIME_TimerPeriodHasExpired ( SYS_TIME_HANDLE handle )
```

## Summary

Reports whether or not the current period of a software timer has expired.

## Description

This function reports whether or not the current period of the given<br />software timer has expired and clears the internal flag tracking period<br />expiration so that each period expiration will only be reported once.

## Precondition

The SYS\_TIME\_Initialize and SYS\_TIME\_TimerCreate or SYS\_TIME\_CallbackRegisterMS/ SYS\_TIME\_CallbackRegisterUS functions \(with callback type set to SYS\_TIME\_PERIODIC\) must have been called before calling this function.

## Parameters

|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|handle|Handle to a software timer instance|

## Returns

*true* - If the period has expired.

*false* - If the period is not expired.

## Example

```c
if (SYS_TIME_TimerPeriodHasExpired(timer) == true)
{
    // Timer has expired. Take desired action.
}
```

## Remarks

-   For a periodic timer, a call to SYS\_TIME\_TimerPeriodHasExpired returns true after the first time period has expired. After calling this function, the expiry flag is internally cleared and is set again once the ongoing period of the periodic timer expires.

-   Unlike the SYS\_TIME\_DelayIsComplete routine the SYS\_TIME\_TimerPeriodHasExpired does not delete the timer, it just returns the status of the timer.

-   To poll the status of the delay timers, SYS\_TIME\_DelayIsComplete must be used instead of the SYS\_TIME\_TimerPeriodHasExpired routine, as SYS\_TIME\_DelayIsComplete additionally deletes the delay timer object once the delay has expired.

-   Since single shot timers does not support polling \(registration of a callback is mandatory for single shot timers\), the SYS\_TIME\_CallbackRegisterMS routine must not be used to poll the status of the single shot timers.


